Create Gameplay stubs (Sliderbreak, Tablet cover, Fingerlock, Mind block) (#3868)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Gameplay/Fingerlock/en.md

---
stub: true
tags:
  - wrist lock
  - finger-lock
  - finger lock
---

# Fingerlock

*Not to be confused with [Notelock](/wiki/Notelock) or [Mind block](/wiki/Mind_block)*

> **Fingerlock** (alternatively spelt as `finger-lock` or `finger lock`) is a term used to describe the sensation of momentarily losing control of one's fingers whilst playing osu!. Although not a term specific to osu!, the term is widely used by players to communicate frustration with plays where a player knows, when and where to press a [hit object](/wiki/Hit_object), but unexplicably just doesn't press the key, effectively creating a sensatin where said finger feels as if it is "locked" in place. Hence then name, "fingerlock."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Fingerlock** (alternatively spelt as `finger-lock` or `finger lock`) is a term used to describe the sensation of momentarily losing control of one's fingers whilst playing osu!. Although not a term specific to osu!, the term is widely used by players to communicate frustration with plays where a player knows, when and where to press a [hit object](/wiki/Hit_object), but inexplicably just doesn't press the key, effectively creating a sensation where said finger feels as if it is "locked" in place. Hence then name, "fingerlock."
```

Fingerlock is a common sensation that happens to many veteran osu! players. The common consensus amongst most players is that fingerlock is generally no cause for alarm. However, if a player experiences persistent or painful fingerlock often, it is recommended that that player see a medical professional, as it may be the result of an underlying health condition.

A specific cause for fingerlock has neither been found nor generally understood yet. However, there are a few common habits that may cause or increase the chances of fingerlock: long play sessions (especially ones that retry the same [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmaps) repeatedly), bad posture or wrist position, or unnecessary strain on the wrist or fingers for extended periods of time. Regardless, fingerlock will most often occur once or twice during a play session as a result of simple hesitation or slow reaction time.

> ## Remedies and prevention

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Remedies & prevention
```
